Describe encryptor config (#242)
cossacklabs/product-docs: content/acra/configuring-maintaining/general-configuration/acra-server/encryptor-config.md

        
        # Tokenization
        token_type: "<int64|int32|str|bytes|email>" # [optional] [required_with=tokenized | consistent_tokenization] 
        tokenized: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
        consistent_tokenization: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
        
        # Masking
        masking: "xxxx" # [optional] [required_with=plaintext_length | plaintext_side]
        plaintext_length: 9  # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
        plaintext_side: "<right|left>" # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
        
        # Searching
        searchable: true # [optional] [default=false]
```

It has two top-level sections: `defaults` and `schemas`.

## **defaults**

Allows to specify common parameters for whole configuration file to not repeat it for each field. For now 
this section supports `crypto_envelope` and `reencrypting_to_acrablocks` options. 

```
defaults:
  crypto_envelope: "<acrablock|acrastruct>" # [optional] [default=acrablock] 
  reencrypting_to_acrablocks: true # [optional] [default=true]
```

### **crypto_envelope**

Required: `false`

Type: `string` 

> Default value: `acrastruct`

Author: year, you are right. will update it

> Description: set encryption algorithm and envelope for ciphertext. Supports: `acrablock` (default), `acrastruct`. 

Author: I will apply it manually due to "crypto envelope**r**"

> Description: set encryption algorithm and envelope for ciphertext. Supports: `acrablock` (default), `acrastruct`. 

Reviewer: i think you can edit the message, change it and the apply changed one

[Read more](/acra/acra-in-depth/data-structures/) about crypto envelopes.

### **reencrypting_to_acrablocks**

Required: `false`

Type: `boolean`

Default value: `false`

Description: turns on re-encryption AcraStructs generated on application side to AcraBlock before passing it to database. 
It replaces less performant AcraStructs to [more performant AcraBlocks](/acra/configuring-maintaining/optimizations/acrastructs_vs_acrablocks/).

If application generates AcraStructs, writes once and reads often then `reencrypting_to_acrablocks: true` makes slower 
writes due to decryption AcraStructs generated on application side and encrypting into AcraBlocks on AcraServer side, 
but significantly improves read operations performance due to faster decryption KEK with symmetric cryptography in comparison

> with asymmetric.

Author: will rewrite and notify after that

{{</ hint  >}}

### **columns**

Required: `false`

Type: `array of strings`

Description: defines all table's columns in order how they were declared in the database. AcraServer doesn't require
access to the database or configuring access to database. So it can't get database's metadata with tables' schemas
and works fully as transparent SQL proxy. 

So, it's important to declare correct order of columns due to it is only one way how to process queries like 
`SELECT * FROM table1` or `INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (...)`. In first query it helps to understand how much and 
which columns expect from the database, how to expand `*` value. In the second query it helps support `INSERT` command without explicitly 
declared columns due to omitted section between table name `table1` and `VALUES` as it could be 
`INSERT INTO table1 (column1, column2) VALUES(<value1>, <value2>)` with explicitly declared columns and order. 

Without declared columns AcraServer **will not** support these kinds of queries.

### **encrypted**

This section declares security controls like `encryption`, `searchable encryption`, `masking`, `tokenization` on per-column basis for specified

> table.

Reviewer: here and above: why these are different lines? 147 and 148. Are these extra `\n` necessary?

Author: Usually, I try to keep lines not more than 100 characters. But not strictly. It is easier to read and maintain in comparison with long-long lines >100 characters
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6237700/162181546-2f0eae70-0491-4364-9b84-e2b6a396568e.png)

Reviewer: okay.jpg

    - column: data_column

      # General options
      client_id: "<string>" # [optional] [conflicts_with=zone_id]
      zone_id: "<string>" # [optional] [conflicts_with=client_id]
      crypto_envelope: "<acrablock|acrastruct>" # [optional]
      data_type: "<str|bytes|int32|int64>" # [optional] [conflicts_with=token_type|tokenized|consistent_tokenization]
      default_data_value: "<string value>" # [optional] [required_with=data_type] may be string literal or valid int32/int64 yaml values

      # Tokenization
      token_type: "<int64|int32|str|bytes|email>" # [optional] [required_with=tokenized | consistent_tokenization]
      tokenized: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
      consistent_tokenization: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]

      # Masking
      masking: "xxxx" # [optional] [required_with=plaintext_length | plaintext_side]
      plaintext_length: 9  # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
      plaintext_side: "<right|left>" # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]

      # Searching
      searchable: true # [optional] [default=false]
```

Required: `true`

Type: `array of items`

> Description: defines which security controls apply on column's data. There is can be configured [transparent encryption](/acra/security-controls/encryption/), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: defines which security controls to apply on column's data. Several options are possible: [transparent encryption](/acra/security-controls/encryption/), 
```

[masking](/acra/security-controls/masking/), [searchable encryption](/acra/security-controls/searchable-encryption/), 
[tokenization](/acra/security-controls/tokenization/).

This section allows to configure several groups of settings:
- **common** 
- **encryption**
- **searchable encryption**
- **masking**
- **tokenization**

<!-- TODO maybe it hard to understand and should be rephrased. -->
Options from `common` group can be used together with options from other groups. But options from different groups 
cannot be used together except `common`. Several can be used for several groups. One column can be configured only with 

> options from the one group and from `common`. 

Reviewer: yeah pls try to rewrite

Author: any suggestions? TODO left for review to ask reviewers help with it)

Author: anyway, updated with examples of groups and cases

performance for write operations.

[Read more](/acra/acra-in-depth/data-structures/) about crypto envelopes, their purpose and difference.
## **schemas section**

This section defines the table schema, and how AcraServer should process each column field. This field is array
with items:
```
schemas:
  - table: <string>
    columns: <array of strings>
    encrypted: <array of structured items>
  - table: <string>
    columns: <array of strings>
    encrypted: <array of structured items>
```

### **table section**

Required: `true`

Type: `string`

Description: a table name which columns will be processed (encrypted, tokenized, etc).
{{< hint warning >}}
Keep in mind that AcraServer 0.93.0 and earlier processes table name as case-sensitive identifier. Thus, "emails" and "Emails" are processed as different tables.
{{</ hint  >}}

### **columns section**

Required: `false`

Type: `array of strings`

Description: defines all table's columns in order how they were declared in the database. AcraServer doesn't require
access to the database or configuring access to database. So it can't get database's metadata with tables' schemas

> and works fully as transparent SQL proxy. 

Author: yes, but doesn't need direct access and permissions. like user:password for authentication)

      tokenized: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
      consistent_tokenization: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]

      # Masking
      masking: "xxxx" # [optional] [required_with=plaintext_length | plaintext_side]
      plaintext_length: 9  # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
      plaintext_side: "<right|left>" # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]

      # Searching
      searchable: true # [optional] [default=false]
```

Required: `true`

Type: `array of items`

Description: defines which security controls to apply on column's data. Several options are possible: [transparent encryption](/acra/security-controls/encryption/), 
[masking](/acra/security-controls/masking/), [searchable encryption](/acra/security-controls/searchable-encryption/), 
[tokenization](/acra/security-controls/tokenization/).

This section allows to configure several groups of settings:
- **common** 
- **encryption**
- **searchable encryption**
- **masking**
- **tokenization**

<!-- TODO maybe it hard to understand and should be rephrased. -->

> Options from `common` group can be used together with options from other groups. But options from different groups 
> cannot be used together except `common` (options from `masking` cannot be used together with `tokenization` or 
> `searchable encryption`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Options from `common` group can be used together with options from other groups. But options from other groups cannot be used together, for example, options for `masking` are unique only for masking and cannot be used together with `tokenization` or `searchable encryption`, and vice versa. 
```

---
title: Encryptor config
weight: 1
---

# Encryptor config

This config is responsible for configuration of proactive security controls of AcraServer and can be specified
via `--encryptor_config=<path>` CLI parameter or `encryptor_config` key in YAML configuration file for AcraServer.

The following security controls can be configured:
- Transparent encryption
- Searchable encryption
- Masking
- Tokenization

There is full example of configuration file with all options:

```
defaults:

>   crypto_envelope: "<acrablock|acrastruct>" # [optional] [default=acrablock] 
>   reencrypting_to_acrablocks: false # [optional] [default=false]

Reviewer 2: To avoid horizontal scroll in config example, I would recommend making it like this.
These two lines have no issues, but we got much longer lines below, better to split them, so split these as well.
```suggestion
  # [optional] [default=acrablock] 
  crypto_envelope: "<acrablock|acrastruct>"
  # [optional] [default=false]
  reencrypting_to_acrablocks: false
```

schemas:
  - table: example_table
    columns:
      - id
      - data_column
     
    encrypted:
      - column: data_column
      
        # General options

>         client_id: "<string>" # [optional] [conflicts_with=zone_id]
>         zone_id: "<string>" # [optional] [conflicts_with=client_id]
>         crypto_envelope: "<acrablock|acrastruct>" # [optional]
>         reencrypting_to_acrablocks: <false|true> # [optional] [default=false]
>         data_type: "<str|bytes|int32|int64>" # [optional] [conflicts_with=token_type|tokenized|consistent_tokenization]
>         default_data_value: "<string value>" # [optional] [required_with=data_type] may be a string literal or a valid int32/int64 value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # [optional] [conflicts_with=zone_id]
        client_id: "<string>"
        # [optional] [conflicts_with=client_id]
        zone_id: "<string>"
        # [optional]
        crypto_envelope: "<acrablock|acrastruct>"
        # [optional] [default=false]
        reencrypting_to_acrablocks: <false|true>
        # [optional] [conflicts_with=token_type|tokenized|consistent_tokenization]
        data_type: "<str|bytes|int32|int64>"
        # [optional] [required_with=data_type] may be a string literal or a valid int32/int64 value
        default_data_value: "<string value>"
```

        
        # Tokenization

>         token_type: "<email|str|bytes|int32|int64>" # [optional] [required_with=tokenized | consistent_tokenization] 
>         tokenized: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
>         consistent_tokenization: true # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
>         
>         # Masking
>         masking: "xxxx" # [optional] [required_with=plaintext_length | plaintext_side]
>         plaintext_length: 9  # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
>         plaintext_side: "<right|left>" # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
>         
>         # Searching
>         searchable: true # [optional] [default=false]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # [optional] [required_with=tokenized | consistent_tokenization]
        token_type: "<email|str|bytes|int32|int64>" 
        # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
        tokenized: true
        # [optional] [default=false] [required_with=token_type]
        consistent_tokenization: true

        
        # Masking
        # [optional] [required_with=plaintext_length | plaintext_side]
        masking: "xxxx"
        # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
        plaintext_length: 9
        # [optional] [required_with=masking | plaintext_side]
        plaintext_side: "<right|left>"
        
        # Searching
        # [optional] [default=false]
        searchable: true
```

If application doesn't generate AcraStructs and rely only on transparent encryption on AcraServer side then we suggest
turn it off. AcraServer will not try to recognize AcraStruct on every AcraBlock matching failure and slightly improve
performance for write operations.

[Read more](/acra/acra-in-depth/data-structures/) about crypto envelopes, their purpose and difference.

## **schemas section**

This section defines the table schema, and how AcraServer should process each column field. This field is array
with items:
```
schemas:
  - table: <string>
    columns: <array of strings>
    encrypted: <array of structured items>
  - table: <string>
    columns: <array of strings>
    encrypted: <array of structured items>
```

### **table section**

Required: `true`

Type: `string`

Description: a table name which columns will be processed (encrypted, tokenized, etc).
{{< hint warning >}}
Keep in mind that AcraServer 0.93.0 and earlier processes table name as case-sensitive identifier. Thus, "emails" and "Emails" are processed as different tables.
{{</ hint  >}}

### **columns section**

Required: `false`

Type: `array of strings`

> Description: defines all table's columns in order how they were declared in the database. AcraServer works as fully transparent proxy and doesn't access to the database's metadata with tables' schemas. 

Reviewer 3: nit: I would wrap it into `warning` clause

Author: wrapped into warning last sentence to get attention on that

Description: configures how AcraServer will replace real type of data stored in database with application's type. Due to
storing data as blobs, AcraServer allow change type on DB protocol level. After that binary data will look like 
Text/Integer/Binary data types for application. 

How AcraServer maps types from configuration file to DB specific type:
- `str` - [text](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-character.html) (PostgreSQL, [oid](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-oid.html)=25); [MYSQL_TYPE_STRING](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (MySQL, 0xfe)
- `int32` - [integer](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-numeric.html) (PostgreSQL, oid=23), [MYSQL_TYPE_LONG](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (MySQL, 0x03)
- `int64` - [bigint](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-numeric.html) (PostgreSQL, oid=20), [MYSQL_TYPE_LONGLONG](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (MySQL, 0x08)

> - `bytes` - [bytea](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-binary.html) (PostgreSQL, oid=17), [MYSQL_TYPE_BLOB](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (MySQL, 0xfc)

Reviewer 3: Maybe transform it to a table? Something like:

| Data type | PostgreSQL                                                                                                                                    | MySql                                                                                                                          |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `str`     | [text](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-character.html) ([oid](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-oid.html)=25) | [MYSQL_TYPE_STRING](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (0xfe)   |
| `int32`   | [integer](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-numeric.html) (oid=23)                                                             | [MYSQL_TYPE_LONG](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (0x03)     |
| `int64`   | [bigint](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-numeric.html) (oid=20)                                                              | [MYSQL_TYPE_LONGLONG](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (0x08) |
| `bytes`   | [bytea](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-binary.html) (oid=17)                                                                | [MYSQL_TYPE_BLOB](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/com-query-response.html#packet-Protocol::ColumnDefinition) (0xfc)     |

Author: transformed. agree, looks prettier
